# Learned Helplessness in Low-income Children  

This repository includes research about parents' income effects on their children's achievement goal structure.
Using Frank (1985), an economic model of social status as a framework, this article explains the effects of parents' rank in income distribution on children's achievement goal orientation. There are two types of consumption goods: positional goods where the amounts of others consume matter and nonpositional goods. Two contrasting achievement goals were used as examples of positional goods and nonpositional goods, respectively. In detail, performance goal which indicates motivation derived by concerns of judgement by others is considered as postional goods while learning goal which is defined as a motivation to enjoy learning itself is considered as nonpositional goods. The main finding of the research is that as parents' rank in income distribution decreases, the children's achievement goal is more oriented to performance goal (p-value 0.16). Moreover, according to Dweck and Elliot (1998),  performance goal is used as a predictor of challenge-avoidance behavior and learned helplessness. Learned helplessness a behavioral pattern to avoid or give up opportunity to surmount negative events. To elaborate, it is attributed to lack of motivation which resulted from the individual learned his/her efforts are irrelevant to the negative events. In this research, I measured the learned helplessness through self-perception on academic ability because helpless behavior starts from beliefs on low ability but also, low self-confidence in ability results from helplessness. The self-perception is measured by subtracting Korean SAT score from self-reported academic ability. This analysis showed that performance-oriented students tend to underestimate their academic ability. Using performance goal in academic setting as positional goods assumes that academic achievements are related to social status. Therefore, these findings suggest that the society where bestows social status on education restricts low-income students from perceiving education as an opportunity to escape poverty.  

However, there are some limitations in the research. First of all, to apply the economic model to acehivement goal theory, student's scale of motivation in learning should increase by parental income. I checked that the coefficient of parental income on academic motivation is positive but not statistically significant. Secondly, the proxy for learned helplessness is not rigorous. Since the behavioral feature of learned helplessness is various and its causal link with helplessness is not clear, the proxy is still in question. For following researches, I would like to see the effects of learning enviornment on achievement goals. Achievement goal is known to be affected by goal structure which means a prevailing values of the environments such as a teacher's emphasis on outcomes etc. I, in particularly, have interests in grading process. Schools in many countries adapted grading on the curve which promotes competition between students. Setting the grading process as a treatment, I aim to examine the changes in student's achievement goals regarding to their parental income.

Investgating current academic setting for low-income students has been considered a primary topic because in many countries, education is related to future earnings. Most economic literature on education has focused on external factors such as parental income and neighborhood. However, in real world, we can see some common characteristics between people who achieved good results regardless of their original financial status. In my opinion, through academic achievements children learn how to manage their life in competence-related fields. Thus, some societies like US and Korea where ranking between colleges is obvious and low-income people are rarely found in a top-tier university make me doubt fairness of current education system and culture for low-income children to experience achievements. This research is a starting point to understand the behaviors of low-income people. I would like to investigate related topics through Ph.D. program in Economics.   